Hysteria Affecting a Male. 
Editors of the Medical and Surg. Rrporter : 

On March 5th, 1864, admitted C, first class 
fireman, aet. 45, native of England, tall, spare, 
sallow, and morose. 

Had felt "pain in his bones" four days, and 
experienced a chill on the morning of that day. 
Eyes were injected, hair disordered, face flushed, 
pulse feeble and slow; tenderness over right 
kidney, with pains shooting thence to the head, 
and in the direction of ureters, micturition 
healthy ; answered listlessly, but made an effort 
to arouse when sharply addressed. 

Prescribed cupping over right kidney. After 
the second scarification he screamed with all his 
might ; I found him lying on deck, groaning and 
sobbing; he complained of " a spot of coldness" 
in the epigastrium, which had now returned the 
fourth time that day; did not allude to renal 
tenderness again. I now suspected hysteria ; 
a more appropriate name would be morbus 
simulans, as the symptoms are mostly simulative, and an unrealness is apparent even when 
the patient's distress is greatest ; the disease is 
not restricted to females, and, therefore, should 
not be named after the uterus. In six hours he 
was found quiet in his hammock ; pulse slow and 
of good volume, face flushed, expression anxious, 
pain in epigastric region, and headache, copious 
respiration about the face, and deepening of 
wrinkles, tongue clean, very red and swollen at 
the tip, protruded with the tip much curved 
downwards, passed an abundance of pale urine.. 
Under the use of assafcetida quinine, and iron, he 
appeared to have become well on the 11th inst. 
Next morning he presented himself again, suffer- 
ing a chill; in a few hours the symptoms before 
detailed reappeared ; first he simulated muttering 
delirium, then he jumped from his hammock and 
raved about being poisoned, he returned on 
being ordered, and asked for bread, which he
devoured voraciously ; refusing to drink, he was 
i^iven assafoetida gr. v. in pill. In the evening 
he was more rational, and complained of cough; 
was given liq. morph. sulph. f.gj. Perfectly 
rational on the 13th inst., and tenderness was 
detected over lumbar spinous processes. Applied 
four dry cups to that region, the patient express- 
ing himself relieved as they drew ; ordered tinct. 
ferri. chlor. gtt. xv. and extr. Valerianae fld. f.^s?. 
thrice daily, good diet, and exercise on shore. 
After about a week he was discharged to duty, 
and the disease had not returned two months 
subsequently. The attack was probably dependent upon spinal irritation, which originated 
from repeated paroxysms of malarial fever. In 
females a morbid state of the womb, and menstruation, may have an indirect agency in producing the disease, by the transmission of an irritative influence to the spinal cord, through the 
uterine branches of the sacral plexuses •, unnatural excitation of the genitalia may act in the 
same way, by means of the pudic branches ; 
in an analogous manner tetanus follows certain 
injuries to the distal end of nerves, and has even 
been attributed to a "dead fetus in the womb." 
Whatever occasions spinal irritation will lead to- 
the affection, if a predisposition exists; though 
this is rare in males, it is sometimes present, and 
I have seen two individuals who had the hysterical diathesis. A. A. Hoehling, M. D., 

Surgeon U. S. Navy, PMla. 
U. S. Ironclad Roanoke, 
Off Newport News, Va. 